CHORAL PUBLIC DOMAIN LIBRARY (CPDL) LICENSE

   Version 4, October 9, 2000

   Copyright (C) 1998, Choral Public Domain Library. (many parts are based on
   GNU Public License, Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
   59 Temple Place - Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA)

Preamble

   Many of the works in this archive are copyrighted under the terms of the
   CPDL License. Copyright licenses are generally designed to restrict your
   freedom to share and change musical works. By contrast, the Choral Public
   Domain Library (CDPL) License is intended to guarantee your freedom to
   share and perform public domain music--to make sure that these works remain
   free and available for all its users. This Public Domain License applies to
   many of the works distributed by the Choral Public Domain Library, as well
   as any modern editions of public domain music which editors choose to
   copyright under the terms of the CPDL License. You can apply it to your
   editions, too.

   Copyright confers many individual rights: the right to control the
   distribution, duplication, performance recording and/or modification of a
   musical work. The CPDL License is designed to make sure that you have the
   freedom to distribute copies of music (and charge for this service if you
   wish), that you can freely perform or record the edition, that you can
   change or re-edit the edition (with certain limitations, see below); and
   that you know you can do these things.

   To protect your rights to access, we need to make restrictions that forbid
   anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.
   These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you
   distribute copies of these editions, or if you wish to modify them.

   For example, if you distribute copies of a musical work under the CPDL
   license, whether gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the
   rights that you have. You must make sure that they, too, can freely
   distribute, perform and record the musical work. And you must show them
   these terms so they know their rights.

   We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the edition, and
   (2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,
   distribute, perform and/or modify said edition.

   The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution, performance and
   modification follow.

TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION PERFORMANCE AND MODIFICATION

   0. This License applies to any work which contains a notice placed by the
   copyright holder saying it may be distributed under the terms of the Choral
   Public Domain Library License. The "Edition", below, refers to any such
   musical work, and a "work based on the Edition" means either the Edition or
   any derivative work under copyright law: that is to say, a work containing
   the Edition or a portion of it, either verbatim or with modifications
   and/or translated into another language. (Hereinafter, translation is
   included without limitation in the term "modification".) Each licensee is
   addressed as "you".

   Activities other than copying, distribution, performance, recording, and
   modification are not covered by this License; they are outside its scope.
   The act of using the Edition is not restricted.

   1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Edition as you
   receive it, in any medium, provided that you conspicuously and
   appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate copyright notice, and
   keep intact all the notices that refer to this License.

   You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy.

   2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Edition or any portion of it,
   thus forming a work based on the Edition, and copy and distribute such
   modifications or work under the terms of Section 1 above, provided that you
   also meet all of these conditions:

   a) You must cause the modified Edition to carry a notice stating that you
   changed the files and the date of any change.

   b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in whole or
   in part contains or is derived from the Edition or any part thereof, to be
   licensed as a whole under the terms of this License.

   c) You must print or display an announcement including an appropriate
   copyright notice and a notice that users may redistribute the Edition under
   these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this License.
   These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole. If identifiable
   sections of that work are not derived from the Edition, and can be
   reasonably considered independent and separate works in themselves, then
   this License, and its terms, do not apply to those sections when you
   distribute them as separate works. But when you distribute the same
   sections as part of a whole which is a work based on the Edition, the
   distribution of the whole must be on the terms of this License, whose
   permissions for other licensees extend to the entire whole, and thus to
   each and every part regardless of who wrote it.

   Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest your
   rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to exercise
   the right to control the distribution of derivative works based on the
   Edition.

   In addition, a compilation of other works not based on the Edition which
   includes the Edition (or with a work derived from the Edition) does not
   bring the other works under the scope of this License.

   3. You may copy and distribute the Edition (or a work based on it, under
   Section 2) as a computer file or as a hard copy under the terms of Sections
   1 and 2 above provided that you accompany it with the complete copyright
   notice, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2
   above.

   4. You may not copy, modify, or distribute the Edition except as expressly
   provided under this License. Any attempt otherwise to copy, modify, or
   distribute the Edition is void, and will automatically terminate your
   rights under this License.

   5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not signed
   it. However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or distribute the
   Edition or its derivative works. These actions are prohibited by law if you
   do not accept this License. Therefore, by modifying or distributing the
   Edition (or any work based on the Edition), you indicate your acceptance of
   this License to do so, and all its terms and conditions for copying,
   distributing or modifying the Edition or works based on it.

   6. Each time you redistribute the Edition (or any work based on the
   Edition), the recipient automatically receives a license from the original
   licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Edition subject to these terms
   and conditions. You may not impose any further restrictions on the
   recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein. You are not responsible
   for enforcing compliance by third parties to this License.

   7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of copyright
   infringement or for any other reason (not limited to copyright issues),
   conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or
   otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not
   excuse you from the conditions of this License. If you cannot distribute so
   as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this License and any
   other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you may not distribute
   the Edition at all. For example, if a copyright license would not permit
   royalty-free redistribution of the Edition by all those who receive copies
   directly or indirectly through you, then the only way you could satisfy
   both it and this License would be to refrain entirely from distribution of
   the Edition.

   If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under any
   particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to apply
   and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other circumstances.

   It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any
   copyrights or other property right claims or to contest validity of any
   such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the integrity
   of the free distribution system, which is implemented by public license
   practices.

   This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to be a
   consequence of the rest of this License.

   8. If the distribution and/or use of the Edition is restricted in certain
   countries by copyright, the original copyright holder who places the
   Edition under this License may add an explicit geographical distribution
   limitation excluding those countries, so that distribution is permitted
   only in or among countries not thus excluded. In such case, this License
   incorporates the limitation as if written in the body of this License.

   9. The Choral Public Domain Library may publish revised and/or new versions
   of the CPDL License from time to time. Such new versions will be similar in
   spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to address new
   problems or concerns.

   Each version is given a distinguishing version number. If the Edition
   specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any
   later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions
   either of that version or of any later version published by the Choral
   Public Domain Library. If the Edition does not specify a version number of
   this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Choral
   Public Domain Library.

END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS
